
@_date: 2012-12-04 13:34:31
@_author: Josh Wilcox 
@_subject: [tahoe-dev] Tahoe, The Least Authority File System, 
The Tahoe Least Authority File System is a peer-to-peer system that stores
data redundantly with agents who cannot read the data contents. These
agents are granted close to the *minimum* authority necessary to support
requests about the data. This design is motivated by the "Principle of
Least Authority".
This Thursday (2012-12-06) at 19:00 PST, members of the Tahoe community
will have a physical meetup at "The Big Noisebridge Table". We'll project a
basic state diagram ( depicting
the behaviour of the distributed "Lease Database" that the "storage server"
agents in the Tahoe network use to manage the encrypted data that they
store. During our meeting we'll add correct and useful content to the
An overview of the design, including the basic state diagram, can be found
For a general introduction to Tahoe check this out:
Gimme the code!!
To understand the behavior of the "lease data base" we'll be inspecting
this code (you might want to look at this before Thursday!):
storage/server.py (less important)
No punch... no pie... just a group building a better Information Super
Highway (a series of tubes in The Cyber)!

@_date: 2012-09-17 11:51:55
@_author: Josh Wilcox 
@_subject: [tahoe-dev] San Francisco Bay Area, Recurring Weekly Physical Meetup 
Hello all!
  This Thursday, 2012-09-20 at 19:00 (UTC-7) there will be a physical
meetup at the Noisebridge Hacker Space AT THE FRONT TABLE, in the Mission
District of San Francisco.
  In addition to inviting all readers of this list, I'd also like to
stimulate an agenda-setting conversation.
  My personal preference is for a setup that results in me staring at code.
  Ideally I'd know ahead of time that there're a few (or ONE!)
chunk(s)/module(s) of code that are/is going to be examined/discussed
during the meetup, so I can "study up".
  I'd like to attract new mindshare so it'd be nice if the focus were on
something that (perhaps with a short preamble) is difficult for a "typical"
(as if there were such a thing!) Noisebridger to resist.  This also means
that our meeting space, AT THE FRONT TABLE,  is a feature, not a bug.
  I'd like to pre-empt a call for realtime video, because I believe that
the physical space is likely to be difficult to control (particularly with
regard to sound) for that purpose.  I think realtime code-sharing (i.e.
where those physically present can stare at a projected web-page that
remote parties can view more "traditionally") will be feasible.
  I'll be visiting the space tomorrow (Tuesday night) to, announce this
meetup at the weekly Noisebridge political meeting, and troubleshoot the
  I'd like to have a head-count, so I can know how many chairs to
commandeer, so emails to my "wilcoxjg at gmail.com" account with subject:
[ATTENDING 2012-09-20 TAHOE MEETUP]
  are greatly appreciated ( provided they're from an appropriate party! :)
And there's a 1-1 correlation between party and email...  and etc... ) .
 OK...  I've probably missed something, hopefully someone will remind me.
  About Last Week:
  During the inaugural (very informal) meetup last Thursday 2012-09-13, the
following topics were discussed:
  * Add Only Capabilities as an abstraction built on top of mutable files
  * Resource Allocation Accounting
  * Migration to vanilla HTTPS for inter-node communication
  I may (upon demand) publish slightly more detailed notes.
