
@_date: 2019-04-29 20:09:11
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Well, 
I don’t believe hiro was speaking as a community council member but as a tor project person.
We want to nurture an open and welcoming environment were people can come to read and learn about Tor. However, more and more tor-talk feels like somewhere core tor people don’t particularly want to be and so we are trying to change that. I’m sorry that in this case you feel you have been singled out. We want people to feel welcome when contributing to these lists and we would ask everyone to be mindful of the effect their posts have on the list as a whole to avoid creating a hostile environment. Thanks for understanding!
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2019-04-30 16:28:34
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Looking for Google Season of Docs mentors 
Hi everyone,
I’m happy to announce that we’ve been accepted for this program: Please check out the ideas on our wiki: We are also happy to consider other proposals and ideas.
Thanks for looking!
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org
gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2019-12-16 11:20:27
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] GSoC 2020 
Thank you for your interest in participating.
We are still evaluating whether or not we will participate in GSoC 2020. Watch this space for further announcements early on next year.
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2019-03-27 12:35:53
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Looking for Google Season of Docs mentors 
Hi Duncan!
We’re definitely looking to participate and I’m going to take on the role of organisation administrator for Tor Project under Google Season of Docs. I’m currently in the process of gathering ideas and mentors ready to start our application once the application process for organisations opens next week.
We have started brainstorming quite a few ideas already but we would also be open for technical writers to propose projects also. So if you have any particular ideas, please get in touch!
So, please watch this space and let’s hope we get selected this time round :)
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org
gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2019-03-28 11:21:19
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Looking for Google Season of Docs mentors 
I would also like to add is that there is also the possibility to do a longer (5 month) project in case anyone has any bigger ideas :)
Thanks for looking into this!

@_date: 2019-05-02 09:34:08
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Is 2019.www.tpo a temporary domain? 
Not sure if this has already been answered in the metrics-team mailing list but... the 2019.www is permanent and denotes content that was archived in 2019.
We want to follow this scheme in general, any time we archive any website, to have the year it was archived during as the prefix.
Hopefully that makes sense.
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2019-05-02 10:10:44
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Explain yourself Conrad Rockenhaus 
This is another reminder to please keep posts on-topic and civil.
This is not the place for personal attacks.
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2020-02-07 10:06:31
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] torrc 
Hi Colin,
The link you are looking for is  Otherwise, depending on why you want to edit your torrc file, you can find information in different places. For example, if you want to do this to configure your relay, you can find a lot of information about this here:  Otherwise if you want to run an onion service, you can find some information here:  We do need a page for tor “power users” to find all of this information easily and we are currently thinking about the best way to do that, whether that is in the upcoming developer portal, a docs portal, or the existing support portal in its own dedicated section. I hope the above links help in the meantime.
Thank you for taking the time to report this.
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2020-02-18 11:31:26
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] Captcha verification fails when using "Get an audio 
Hi, It sounds like the website you are trying to visit does not like your current exit node. Have you tried requesting a new circuit for the site?
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45

@_date: 2020-01-20 16:15:23
@_author: Pili Guerra 
@_subject: [tor-talk] website change request 
Hi Udo,
This has now been implemented.
Feedback welcome.
Project Manager: Tor Browser, UX and Community teams
pili at torproject dot org gpg 3E7F A89E 2459 B6CC A62F 56B8 C6CB 772E F096 9C45
