
@_date: 2015-10-05 11:16:14
@_author: G1lius Caesar 
@_subject: [bitcoin-dev] Bitcoin dev IRC meeting in layman's terms 
As per request of Luke-jr I'm sending a copy of my post on reddit
to the mailing list.
This was intended to be a simple explanation of the weekly dev meeting for
people to understand what you guys are working on, not as a summary for
other devs.
However, if this is in any way, shape or form useful for the mailing-list
I'll gladly post a copy of this every week (or a modified version of it).
Any comments, suggestions, etc. are welcome.
Mail me at G1liusbitcoin at gmail.com
Tweet me If you are to skim through this, skip "background" as you likely already
know this.
Please bare in mind I'm not a developer and I'd have problems coding "hello
world!", so some things might be incorrect or plain wrong.
Like any other write-up it likely contains personal biases, although I try
to stay as neutral as I can.
The full IRC-logs can be found here
There are no decisions being made in these meetings, so if I say "everyone
agrees" this means everyone present in the meeting, that's not consensus,
but since a fair amount of devs are present it's a good representation.
Main topics discussed where:
Mempool limiting
BIP68 + CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY
CLTV soft fork deployment
libconsensus merge time window
**Mempool limiting**
- background
When a transaction is relayed across the network it is held by the nodes in
memory, until it gets into a block. All these transactions that sit in
memory are called the memorypool or mempool for short.
Like we could see during the spam-attack if there's a big back-log of
transactions that couldn't make it in the blockchain this mempool can get
pretty big resulting in nodes crashing.
To stop this from happening devs are trying to find a way to limit this
mempool, so a mechanism to reject and/or remove transactions from the
mempool. The hard part here is to make it so nodes can't be attacked by
abusing this mechanism.
There are multiple worked out ideas for this, namely:
Limit mempool by throwing away the cheapest txn and setting min realy fee
to it (  )
Mempool limiting with descendant package tracking (
 )
exponential rising effective min relay feerate (
 )
- meeting comments
devs are leaning towards 6722 (throwing away the cheapest txn and setting
min relay fee to it) because it's the more simpler approach and possibly
less edge-cases.
The idea behind it is to have a mem-pool that gives a good approximation on
what'll be included in the next blocks, meaning higher fee transactions.
This approach also helps to build a fee-estimator.
Some devs propose to include a time-based eviction as well.
- meeting conclusion
6722 should be completed and 6722, 6557 and 6673 should be attacked by the
others to try and find edge-cases.
The default mempool size should be 300Mb.
**Chain limits**
- background
Related to mempool limiting.
Chain in this context means connected transactions. When you send a
transaction that depends on another transaction that has yet to be
confirmed we talk about a chain of transactions.
Miners ideally take the whole chain into account instead of just every
single transaction (although that's not widely implemented afaik). So while
a single transaction might not have a sufficient fee, a depending
transaction could have a high enough fee to make it worthwhile to mine both.
This is commonly known as child-pays-for-parent.
Since you can make these chains very big it's possible to clog up the
mempool this way.
The first unconfirmed transaction is called the ancestor and the
transactions depending on it the descendants. The total amount of
transactions is referred to as "packages".
- meeting comments
All of the mempool limiting approaches are way easier to attack if you have
bigger chain limits.
the reason to have larger descendant packages is you can't control that
yourself, somebody pays you and bob, and bob chains off a million
descendants and he ends up screwing you.
if you have a say 900kb ancestor package limit, then even if the ancestor
fee rate is reasonably high, default mining code is likely going to find
100kb of very high fee txs to include first, and then there won't be room
for your ancestor package.
Morcos proposes 25/250kb for ancestors and 50/500kb for descendants,
meaning max. either 25 transactions or 250kb in size for ancestors.
Most seem to be fine with those limits and even smaller.
-meeting conclusion
morcos writes a chain-limit proposal to post on the mailing list in order
to find possible usecases for large chain transactions.
**CHECKLOCKTIMEVERIFY softfork**
- background
Commonly referred to as: How you thought nLockTime worked before you
actually tried to use it.
There's a fair amount of demand for this and the code is reviewed and has
been running on sidechains alpha for 6 months.
The only real issue is how and when it's merged.
Currently softforks have been done by the isSuperMajority mechanism,
meaning when 95% of the last X blocks has a version number higher than X
the fork is deployed.
A new way of doing this is currently being worked on and that uses all bits
of the version number, appropriately being called versionbits. So instead
of a fork happening when the version is larger than (for example)
00000000011 (3), a fork happens when (for example) the 3rd bit is up (so
This way softforks can be deployed simultaneous and independent of each
- meeting comments
Questions are being posed whether we wait for other time-related BIP's
and/or versionbits, or do it now using isSuperMajority.
If versionbits is deployed later it needs to wait for all supermajority
softforks to be over.
Vladimir van der Laan doesn't want to deploy any soft forks in major
releases (0.12 in this case) so that people explicitly upgrade for the
softfork not for other things.
You could roll out multiple supermajority forks as long as they are
Talks seem to converge to using supermajority to deploy checkLockTimeVerify
and checkSequenceVerify if it's ready by the end of October.
- meeting conclusion
checkLockTimeVerify backports (deployment in older versions) needs to be
reviewed as well as BIP68, 112 and 113 (all the time-related BIP's).
- background
Satoshi wasn't the best programmer out there, which leaves a pretty messy
code. Ideally you'd have the part of the code that influences the network
consensus separately, but in bitcoin it's all intertwined.
Libconsensus is what eventually should become this part. This way people
can more easily make changes in the non-consensus part without fear of
causing a network fork.
This however is a slow and dangerous project of moving lot's of code
- meeting comments
Lot's of discussion on when existing changes should be merged, when the
code should be frozen for next release etc.
In linux changes are merged right after a major release. jtimon notices
this was planned for after 0.10 and 0.11 too, but nothing happened.
There seems to be a lack of planning and overview as to what where has to
- meeting conclusion
jtimon will provide a high level rationale for what and where things should
move so people can make comments and review according to this rationale.
dstadulis     Daniel Stadulis
wumpus Wladimir J. van der Laan
morcos Alex Morcos
gmaxwell     Gregory Maxwell
btcdrak btcdrak
jonasshnelli Jonas Schnelli
maaku Mark Friedenbach
sdaftuar Suhas Daftuar
sipa Pieter Wuille
BlueMatt    Matt Corallo
CodeShark Eric Lombrozo
Luke-Jr Luke Dashjr
bsm117532 Bob McElrath
jgarzik Jeff Garzik

@_date: 2015-10-10 17:22:15
@_author: G1lius Caesar 
@_subject: [bitcoin-dev] Bitcoin dev meeting in layman's terms (2015-10-8) 
Once again my attempt to summarize and explain the weekly bitcoin developer
meeting in layman's terms.
Link to last weeks layman's summarization:
 at lists.linuxfoundation.org/msg02445.html
Please bare in mind I'm not a developer and I'd have problems coding "hello
world!", so some things might be incorrect or plain wrong.
Like any other write-up it likely contains personal biases, although I try
to stay as neutral as I can.
There are no decisions being made in these meetings, so if I say "everyone
agrees" this means everyone present in the meeting, that's not consensus,
but since a fair amount of devs are present it's a good representation.
The dev IRC and mailinglist are for bitcoin development purposes. If you
have not contributed actual code to a bitcoin-implementation, this is
probably not the place you want to reach out to. There are many places to
discuss things that the developers read, including this sub-reddit.
link to this week logs (
 )
link to meeting minutes (
Main topics discussed this week where:
Mempool limiting: chain limits
Low-S change
CLTV & CSV review
Creation of bitcoin discuss mailing list
**off-topic but important notice**
This issue (  ) has made most JS
bitcoin software vulnerable to generating incorrect public keys.
"This is an ecosystem threat with the potential to cause millions of
dollars in losses that needs higher visibility; though it's not a bitcoin
core / bitcoin network issue.
Common, critical, JS code is broken that may cause the generation of
incorrect pubkeys (among other issues). Anyone who cares for a JS
implementation should read that PR."
**Mempool limiting: chain limits**
- background
(c/p from last week)
Chain in this context means connected transactions. When you send a
transaction that depends on another transaction that has yet to be
confirmed we talk about a chain of transactions.
Miners ideally take the whole chain into account instead of just every
single transaction (although that's not widely implemented afaik). So while
a single transaction might not have a sufficient fee, a depending
transaction could have a high enough fee to make it worthwhile to mine both.
This is commonly known as child-pays-for-parent.
Since you can make these chains very big it's possible to clog up the
mempool this way.
The first unconfirmed transaction is called the ancestor and the
transactions depending on it the descendants. The total amount of
transactions is reffered to as "packages".
- since last week
As said in "Chain limits" last week Morcos did write a proposal about
lowering the default limits for transaction-chains.
2 use cases came up which are currently in use or happened before:
As example: someone buys bitcoin from a website and can spend those bitcoin
in the marketplace of the same website without waiting for confirmation in
order to improve the bitcoin user-experience. This leaves a sequential
transaction chain. They don't need to chain more than 5 transactions deep
for this, and it falls within the proposed limits.
What's not within the proposed limits is the chain of +/- 100 transactions
a company had during the spam-attacks. These where simply increased
activities by end-users while not enough UTXO's where available (3 to be
precise)(UTXO: unspent transaction output, an output that can be used as
input for a new transaction).
Notably this is with the best practices of using confirmed transactions
Ways this can be solved from the company's end is to have more UTXO's
available before hand, bundling transactions (which requires delaying
customer's request) or using replace-by-fee to add payees (which saves
blockchain space, is cheaper in fees and gets transactions through quicker,
but is not widely deployed by miners atm).
Bare in mind these proposals are for default values for the memorypool, not
in any way hard limits.
- meeting comments
Sense of urgency. Quoting sipa: "my mempool is 2.5G... we better get some
Current attack analysis assumes child-pays-for-parent mining, it should
probably be done again without.
Higher limits on number of transactions increase attack-vectors.
Proposed number of transactions gets some push-back, total size limit not.
Mixing default values (for example having a 50% of a 10/10 limit and 50% of
a 100/100 limit) wastes bandwidth while there are too many factors that
limit utility of long chains as well.
25 transaction limit ought to be enough for everyone (for now).
- meeting conclusion
Review & test "Limit mempool by throwing away the cheapest txn and setting
min relay fee to it" (  )
Provide support for "Lower default limits for tx chains" (
 ) aka convince people 25
should be enough.
**Low-S change**
- background
This is in regards to the recent malleability attack. Which is caused by a
value 'S' in the ECDSA signature which can be 2 values, a high and low
value and still be valid. Resulting in different transaction id's. more
A solution for this is to require nodes to have the "low-s" encoding for
Downside is that it will block most transactions made by sufficiently out
of date software (+/- pre-march 2014)
This does not replace the need for BIP62, it only eliminates the cheap DOS
- meeting comments
95% of transactions already confirm to this, and more fixes have been
applied since.
BlueMatt has a node which several people are running that auto-malleates to
low-s transactions.
Questions whether we release it ASAP or wait for the next release and get
it to a couple of miners in the meantime (possibly with
- meeting conclusion
Contact miners about "Test LowS in standardness, removes nuisance
malleability vector" (  )
Release scheduled for the end of the month, together with likely
check-lock-time-verify and possibly check-sequence-verfiy.
**CLTV & CSV backport review**
- background
CLTV: checkLockTimeVerify
CSV: checkSequenceVerify
Both new time-related OP-codes.
Been discussed heavily last week.
- meeting comments
CSV doesn't seem ready enough for release later this month.
There's no clarity on how things look when all 3 time related pull-requests
are merged.
There's a number of people still reviewing the pull-requests.
Uncertainty and confusion about whether the semantics are final or not (in
regards to using bits from nSequence). nSequence are 4 bytes intended for
sequencing time-locked transactions, but this never got used.
Now these bytes are being repurposed for a mixture of things. Currently the
plan is: " bits 0..15 are the relative locktime, bit 30 determines units
(0: height, 1: time w/ 512s granularity), and bit 31 toggles BIP 68 (0: on,
1: off). bits 16..29 are masked off and can take any value."
- meeting conclusion
Clarification from maaku regarding nSequence for BIP68. (after the meeting
he explained he was waiting for opinions, but not enough people seemed to
know the issue at hand)
Continue review of pull requests 6312 (
 ), 6564 (
 ) and 6566 (
 )
**Creation of bitcoin discuss mailing list**
- background
The bitcoin-dev mailing list is intented for technical discussions only.
There's things that don't belong there but need to be discussed anyway.
Now this is done in bitcoin-dev, but the volume of this is getting too big.
There's recently also an influx of really inappropriate posts, level
kindergarden (
 at lists.linuxfoundation.org/msg02539.html
- meeting comments
No clarity about who are the moderators.
Next week there'll be a bitcoin-discuss list created.
Decisions are needed as to who'll become the moderators for that and
Decisions are needed as to what will be the list and moderation policies.
- meeting conclusion
The bitcoin-discuss list will be created as well as a simple website
listing all the lists and corresponding policies.
A meeting is scheduled on monday to discuss the moderation and policies of
said lists.
morcos           Alex Morcos
gmaxwell         Gregory Maxwell
wumpus           Wladimir J. van der Laan
sipa             Pieter Wuille
BlueMatt         Matt Corallo
btcdrak          btcdrak
petertodd        Peter Todd
warren           Warren Togami
phantomcircuit   Patrick Strateman
dstadulis        Daniel Stadulis
GreenIsMyPepper  ?? Jospeh Poon ??
bsm117532        Bob McElrath

@_date: 2015-10-19 15:20:15
@_author: G1lius Caesar 
@_subject: [bitcoin-dev] Bitcoin dev IRC meeting in layman's terms (2015-10-15) 
Once again my attempt to summerize and explain the weekly bitcoin developer
meeting in layman's terms.
Link to last weeks summerization (
Link to this weeks on reddit:
Please bear in mind I'm not a developer and I'd have problems coding "hello
world!", so some things might be incorrect or plain wrong.
Like any other write-up it likely contains personal biases, although I try
to stay as neutral as I can.
There are no decisions being made in these meetings, so if I say "everyone
agrees" this means everyone present in the meeting, that's not consensus,
but since a fair amount of devs are present it's a good representation.
The dev IRC and mailinglist are for bitcoin development purposes. If you
have not contributed actual code to a bitcoin-implementation, this is
probably not the place you want to reach out to. There are many places to
discuss things that the developers read, including this sub-reddit.
link to this week logs
Meeting minutes by meetbot
Main topics discussed where:
Mempool limiting
sendheaders BIP
dev/discuss list policy
**Mempool limiting**
- background
When a transaction is relayed across the network it is held by the nodes in
memory, until it gets into a block. All these transactions that sit in
memory are called the memorypool or mempool for short.
Like we could see during the spam-attack if there's a big back-log of
transactions that couldn't make it in the blockchain this mempool can get
pretty big resulting in nodes crashing.
To stop this from happening devs are trying to find a way to limit this
mempool, so a mechanism to reject and/or remove transactions from the
mempool. The hard part here is to make it so nodes can't be attacked by
abusing this mechanism.
So far the devs are going with TheBlueMatt's proposal of throwing away the
cheapest txn and setting the min relay fee to it
- meeting comments
While testing, sipa encountered transactions that took 200ms to be accepted
into the mempool.
As it's the first time he has benchmarked this and the pull-request
shouldn't make an impact on these times it likely doesn't have anything to
do with this. However, such times are bad either way.
The average time in sipa's tests is 4ms. (After the meeting Morcos did some
benchmarking (
 ) and
confirmed it was not specific to this PR, and pointed out the outliers come
from CheckInputs and HaveInputs (as you might guess, having to do with
checking the inputs)
Question on why we should revert the minrelay (minimum fee for nodes to
relay a transaction) back to 1000 (it has been set to 5000 to quick-fix the
mempool issues), sipa thinks it should be floating as well or the dust
limit becomes ineffective.
- meeting conclusion
Review PR 6722 Limit mempool by throwing away the cheapest txn and setting
min relay fee to it Morcos/sipa will do some more benchmarks and comment on the PR ( morcos'
benchmark results
 )
**sendheaders BIP**
- background
send headers BIP
Copy/paste from the BIP:
Since the introduction of "headers-first" downloading of blocks in 0.10,
blocks will not be processed unless they are able to connect to a (valid)
headers chain. Consequently, block relay generally works as follows:
1. A node (N) announces the new tip with an "inv" message, containing the
block hash
2. A peer (P) responds to the "inv" with a "getheaders" message (to request
headers up to the new tip) and a "getdata" message for the new tip itself
3. N responds with a "headers" message (with the header for the new block
along with any preceding headers unknown to P) and a "block" message
containing the new block
However, in the case where a new block is being announced that builds on
the tip, it would be generally more efficient if the node N just announced
the block header for the new block, rather than just the block hash, and
saved the peer from generating and transmitting the getheaders message (and
the required block locator).
- meeting comments
Question on how to move forward. How to let the nodes know you want the
blockheader instead of the blockhash.
Extend the version message.
Have an "options" message that can send flags.
Send a "sendheaders" message early when connecting so the way peers want
their block announcement is immediately known.
Send a "sendheaders" message at any time, changing the way peers want their
block announcement from hashes to headers.
No one likes to extend the version message further.
There's no strong advantage to have an "options" message over a
"sendheaders" message.
Having the message being sent early on might be too constraining. Possible
usecase from morcos: "its entirely possible some future optimization may
say, i want to send sendheaders to these peers b/c they announce a lot of
new stuff to me and not these others b/c they don't".
Most people like this to be enable-only, so no message to get back to
receiving blockhashes. Which is how the BIP was drafted.
-meeting conclusion
sdaftuar does a pull-request for the BIP to get a number assigned and
proceeds with the BIP as drafted.
- background
BIP 9 Currently softforks have been done by the isSuperMajority mechanism,
meaning when 95% of the last X blocks has a version number higher than Y
the fork is deployed.
A new way of doing this is currently being worked on and that uses all bits
of the version number, appropriately being called versionbits. So instead
of a fork happening when the version is larger than (for example)
00000000011 (3), a fork happens when (for example) the 3rd bit is up (so
This way softforks can be deployed simultaneous and independant of each
- meeting comments
copy/paste from IRC, since I don't know what this specifically means:
CodeShark: so right now it's just a unit that implements the versionbits
logic but does not demonstrate its usage
I thought it would be better to actually integrate in a separate PR, but I
can add a demonstration
sipa: separate commit, same PR - i think we need something that's mergable
as a whole, to be able to see whether the whole thing easily backports
Codeshark (who's implementing versionbits) had some more remarks but no one
present had seemed to reviewed it, so not much use in discussing things
- meeting conclusion
review versionbits implementation
**dev/discuss list policy**
- background
The bitcoin-dev mailing list is intented for technical discussions only.
There's things that don't belong there but need to be discussed anyway.
Now this is done in bitcoin-dev, but the volume of this is getting too big.
There's recently also an influx of really inappropriate posts, level
 at lists.linuxfoundation.org/msg02539.html.
For the things that don't belong on bitcoin-dev, but need to be discussed
anyway there's a new list being created namely bitcoin-discuss as well as
clear policies and moderation for both.
- meeting comments
Bitcoin-discuss was created, but the admin password wasn't distributed to
jgarzik who's willing to guide the moderatation.
Separate moderation-proposals have been done meanwhile.
People just want it to move on.
- meeting conclusion
Since none of the people who proposed a moderation-scheme are present we'll
let them discuss it among each other and post their decisions publicly.
- background
CheckLockTimeVerify (CLTV) repurposes the nSequence field (nSequence are 4
bytes intended for sequencing time-locked transactions, but this never got
used). However, there's no way use these values in a bitcoin script.
CheckSequenceVerify (CSV) makes this field accessible to bitcoin scripts.
- meeting comments
CLTV is pretty much done.
Check to see maaku moving one of the bits to allow for other
implementations to have better granularity has any objections.
As long as we're using as few bits as possible the exact semantics are less
important for most people.
sipa points out a possible bug (
 ) that
influences the wallet.
CSV is not on target for the end of of the month, although a lot of work
and progress has been made.
- meeting conclusion
Review and ACK/NACK of 6312 BIP-68: Mempool-only sequence number constraint
verification Review and ACK/NACK of 6566 BIP-113: Mempool-only median time-past as
endpoint for lock-time calculations
wumpus     Wladimir J. van der Laan
sipa       Pieter Wuille
btcdrak    btcdrak
gmaxwell   Gregory Maxwell
morcos     Alex Morcos
maaku      Mark Friedenbach
CodeShark  Eric Lombrozo
BlueMatt   Matt Corallo
sdaftuar   Suhas Daftuar
warren     Warren Togami
GreenIsMyPepper  Joseph Poon
davec      Dave Collins
cfields    Cory Fields
jonasschnelli   Jonas Schnelli
